Man: Previously
on "Queen Sugar"...
- Robert DuBois.
- Nova Bordelon.
I found a letter
a couple months back.
All this,
Pops left it to me.
You can let your pride write
that check if you wanna,
but you best be ready
to cash it.
This job
is part of my recovery.
You're fired.
Yah!
What the hell
is wrong with ya, huh?
- Stop!
- Get off of him.
You and Davis
messed him up.
It's your fault
raising him like that.
[ line ringing ]
It's been cold
It's been
a real hard winter
Don't know which one's
the real good-bye
[ cell phone vibrates ]
- Hey.
- Please tell_me
you're parking.
- [ sighs ]
- Micah?
I'm in New Orleans
with Aunt Nova.
It's a Habitat
for Humanity build day.
Did you forget
about our session with
Dr. Thompson today?
I mean,
you're always saying
I should_ do _
more community serVIce
for my college apps.
She invited me.
- Well, I guess that's that.
- Sorry.
Okay, have a great day, honey.
Sounds like Micah
won't be joining us then?
He got his dates mixed up.
So he's now_
at a serVIce prOJect.
-Hmm.
- Sorry to have
wasted your time.
Why don't you stay, Charley?
We can take this opportunity
to get to know each other
a little better.
I actually do quite a few
solo sessions with parents.
I just think it's pointless
to not have Micah here.
Well, you're here.
We're on the clock.
And some time with you
will help me
do my job better with Micah.
[ theme music playing ]
Dreams never die,
take flight
As the world turns
Dreams never die,
take flight
As the world turns
Keep the colors
in the lines, take flight
Dreams never die
Keep the colors
in the lines
in the lines, take flight.
Mm, he looks
so peaceful and yummy.
I'll hate to wake him.
Yeah, well,
thanks for coming early.
Quicker I lay
them soybeans down,
quicker I'm done.
You don't have to thank me.
I love being here
when Blue wakes up.
And I love you being here
when Blue wake up too.
Ah! Babe!
That's so sweet!
- Come on, sit down.
- Thank you.
- You like it?
- I love it.
We could have this
every morning, you know.
Move in with me and Blue.
We talked about this.
Yeah, that was before
you lost your job.
I'd be lying if I said
I ain't been worried
these last two weeks,
how you're gonna get by,
and, you know--
I'll be fine.
Bills don't stop
'cause a job does.
But, you know,
you move in with us,
that takes some
of the pressure
off your back.
And puts it on yours.
But it's
a good kind of pressure.
Them soybeans'll
be ready to sell
in a couple months' time.
I'm harvesting my cane soon.
Look, money coming
to find me.
You don't have to do this
all by yourself.
I love... that
you're looking out for me.
But I have
to take care of myself.
- [ clears throat]
- I don't want you to worry.
I'm gonna find something soon.
Do I still get
to eat my breakfast, though?
Nah, gimme that bad boy.
[laughs]
[ whistles, chuckles ]
Is that bacon?
Twist on my maple pecan.
Like it?
Woman,
your hands are blessed.
This supposed to be
a tasting, right?
You got me my notebook for me
to write down my thoughts.
But you all deep in yours.
Now, what's going on?
Baby, I'm just nervous.
I want these to sell.
Nah, that ain't it.
What's wrong?
[ sighs ]
Ralph Angel...
found a letter.
From Ernest.
Leaves the farm to him
and him alone.
No Nova.
No Charley.
Damn, Ernest.
Well, Rah
was working the land
when they was off
living they lives.
That's not fair.
Well, maybe not,
but it's what happened.
Yeah, well,
regardless, I told him
to keep this to himself
for a while.
Good advice.
This just might not be
the right time
to take up
all this, Hollywood.
- What, the business?
- Yeah.
You stop right there.
God did not mold you
to be no peacekeeper.
They grown.
You grown.
And you deserve to live
the life you want to live.
So, we gonna make
that happen, you heard me?
Dr. Thompson:
_It can diffi_cult _
to pInpomt a time line
for these sorts of things.
He needs to feel comfortable
In his own skIn again.
I just hate that some thug
with a badge can get
in the way
of all we've worked for.
I just don't want
to see him fail.
Do you feel that there was
a lot of emphasis
on failure
when you were Micah's age?
I'd like to keep
the focus on him.
Mm, well,
it can be helpful
to establish
generational patterns
sometimes.
Chances are, something that
was important to your parents,
is important to you, too.
and potentially important
to Micah.
I hear you,
but I'm not raising Micah
the way I was raised.
Is there a reason for that?
It's not that I don't
apprecnate my parents.
I just want Micah to know
that he can come to me.
Can I ask, did you feel
that you couldn't
talk to your parents
when you were growing up?
Well, my mother brought
me up mostly.
And I love her.
Don't get me wrong.
But... she wanted me
to be perfect.
And we didn't talk
about things
that fell outside
of those lines.
But believe me,
I know the line
between excellence
and perfectionlsm.
I'm not forcing
that on Micah.
And he knows that?
And I wanna make sure that
everyone IS paying attention
to the safety guidelines
we went over in orientation.
And please be nice
to the tools.
[ scattered laughter ]
So how's Keke?
She keeping you on your toes?
[ scoffs ]
You know, sometimes I think
I got her all figured out.
A minute later_
and I'm lost again.
Better get used to it.
Excuse me, shouldn't you
be wearing gloves?
What?
What are you doing here?
I saw your tweets asking
people to lend a hand.
Thought I'd lend mine.
Atlanta to NOLA
IS a long way
to lend a hand, doctor.
How about two hands?
Cute.
Micah, meet my colleague,
Dr. Robert DuBois.
Robert, meet
my brilliant nephew,
Micah West.
- Pleasure.
- Micah: Yeah, you too.
- How can I help?
- [ chuckles ]
Yeah. Uh-huh, thank you.
- Charley.
- Darla.
I was hoping I could get
your advice about something.
Yeah.
I don't know
if Ralph Angel's told you,
but I'm trying
to find a new job,
and I was hoping,
that maybe, I don't know,
you could help me?
- Me?
- I mean, If now's
not a good time--
No, no, it's fine, really.
It's a little
all over the place, but...
Six_months as
a parking attendant.
Bartender.
Administrative assistant
for a year In college.
I'll be honest,
the gaps are concerning.
And I think
you're past the age
where internship experience
is relevant.
Though the companies
are impressive.
- My parents knew
a few people.
- Well, maybe they can help.
They won't.
How do you know
unless you ask?
Um... they were through with me
a really long time ago.
Sometimes things
can get lost in translation...
and spiral.
You never know
where people are at.
You know what? I'm sorry.
I'll figure this out myself.
I'm sorry to just, like,
drop in like this.
- No, Darla--
- It's really okay.
Thank you, though.
So, what's going on?
Are we on the edge
or over the cliff?
Mm, well,
these last couple weeks
have felt solong.
[ chuckles ]
Well, that's the hardest part
of staying sober, isn't it?
The bad days go by
much faster when you're numb.
Last year of my marriage
felt like a week.
[ chuckles ]
Ralph Angel asked me
to move in.
- And what did yousay?
- I said no.
He's just trying to be there
for me, and I know that.
But... it just
makes me feel worse.
Like... like I can't
do for myself
or like I'm alwaysgonna need
someone to rescue me.
But you know
that's not true.
You're right.
[ music playing ]
I'm telling you,
you haven't had
a sugar cream pie
till you had Aunt Vi's.
It's sweet and light and--
What other kinds of pies
do you make?
Well, Dutch apple,
raspberry chiffon,
chocolate silk,
black bottom cherry.
I make a lemon supreme
that'll make you
ask God for forgiveness.
[laughs]
I'm not really looking to take
on new expenditures right now.
Let me know if things
work out someplace else.
Might give it a shot then.
- Thank you.
- Sure thing.
For me, right?
And everything's been great.
You think
you can hold it flush?
Nova:
You know I'm country, right?
Mama and Daddy
taught me some things.
I'm not like those delicate
city girls you grew up with.
Wasn't anything delicate
about the girls I grew up with.
Can you hold it
from this side?
My granddad
was a carpenter.
His hands?
My sister and I,
we used to make a game
out of counting his calluses.
I wanted hands like his.
My daddy spent
his life farming,
used to say how
you could tell the worth
of a person
by the good they did
with their hands.
What's up, man?
- Hey.
- Nova.
Look, thanks
for bringing Micah.
We're heading out.
You're welcome.
Robert DuBois.
He's a doctor. Epidemiologist.
And he studied at Stanford.
And now he's doing
some interesting stuff
to help our people.
All right,
it was good to meet you.
Robert:
Actually, we've met before.
You blocked my sole pass
in a game in college.
Fourth quarter where they
bring in the guys like me.
- Good but not good enough.
- Right.
I made a pass,
and it would've been beautiful
if only I hadn't been playing
against the college player
of the decade.
-[laughs]
- How many lives
have you led?
Oh, I'll tell you all
about them, don't worry.
- Look, we should get going.
- Pleasure to meet you, man.
Good luck on the season.
I hope you get that fifth ring.
Thanks, man.
Thank you.
- Love you.
- Love you back.
- All right.
Nice to meet you, young man.
- Good meeting you. Yeah.
I'm also
pretty good at botany.
- Oh, really?
- Yes, ma'am.
- What do you grow?
- Lettuce.
- Yeah, no, it was good.
- Yeah? Tired?
Man:
Davis West, Davis West.
- Ah, nice to meet you, man.
- How you doing? All right.
Oh, my God,
that's Davis West!
How you doing, man?
You good? Who's this?
Micah:
Tamar Judith.
Her new album is everything.
I saw her last summer
at the Ace in LA.
I grew up in a house built
by Habitat for Humanity.
And I know what it does
to have a home of your own
built with the love _
and care of a community.
Man:
I love you, Tamar!
Hey. So as much I can,
I come out and I support.
Now, I can't swing a hammer
worth a damn.
[laughs]
But I believe
that showing up
is just as important.
Well, it looks like
you're not the only star here
for the cause.
Davis West,
a word on the project?
Yeah, sure, well...
- Man: Yo, Davis!
- Hey.
I'm here
because my son Micah
has made a commitment
to do exactly what Ms. Judith
so eloquently expressed,
build a community
with love for each other.
I mean, guys, look,
when great artists
and advocates join hands,
we can do anything
as long as
we do it together.
I mean,
together we are stronger.
[ crowd murmurs ]
I live
in a church for all...
Robert:
Much hasn't changed since
the last time I was here.
It's been years.
You know, they actually
have bus tours
rolling through here now?
- [ chuckles ]
- Four or five times a week.
Bunch of curious folk
pay like $45 a pop
to come by...
andlook.
And go back
to their regularly
scheduled lives.
That's why I carry
this city with me.
Always. I never want
to forget what happened here.
I know
how much strength that takes.
- I couldn't do it.
Honestly.
- [ church bell tolling ]
It's been a long
It's been
a long, long
a long, long, long
Lonely road...
[ Darla laughing ]
Hi, my love.
Just came out to make sure
you have all your fingers.
- What's up, boy?
- Hey, Pop.
And bring you snacks.
Appreciate it.
[ sighs ]
How much longer
you think you'll be?
Maybe an hour or two.
Went faster
than I thought it would.
Have you been lonely
out here all day?
- Kind of felt at home.
-Hmm.
[ chuckles ]
[ both laughing ]
I'm saving
the day now!
- You are? Okay, let me see.
- Watch.
Watch?
Oh! Saving the day!
[ sings fanfare ]
Both :
Victory!
Blue?
What do you like about Kenya?
Her hair is soft
just like mine.
She's my bestfriend
and she's good at whispers.
That sounds pretty wonderful,
but... you know what?
[ whispers ]
Mommy's good at whispers, too.
Psst.
Are you--
are you happy that Mommy's
been around more lately?
Can we get out of here?
[ singsong ]
Wrinkles.
Wrinkles? Okay.
Love you.
Love you, too.
All right, stand up.
So, you still in touch
with Too Sweet?
I am.
He's thriving.
You read my article.
I did.
Just trying to piece together
the Nova Bordelon puzzle.
Your work is fantastic.
You're gonna make
my head swell.
What's wrong with that?
[ chuckles ]
I hope I'm not being
too forward, um...
but I like you, Nova.
[ cell phone rings ]
Sorry.
I have to take this.
[ clears throat ]
- H_ell_o?
- So, is it me
you don't respect
or just boundaries?
You helped Micah
blow off therapy today.
Sorry. I had no idea.
He mentioned school.
Said he could use
the service hours.
Well... Thank you
for your apology.
I, um... didn't mean
to come in so hot.
- What's going on with you?
- Nothing. Nothing. I'm fine.
I should go.
I have a lot
of unpacking to do.
So... trying to make
this place livable.
Okay.
Sorry.
- Okay.
- Okay. Bye.
So, now that I've got you
hopped up on sugar...
[ chuckles ] do you want
to go have some dinner?
I wish I could.
I have to help my sister.
- That was her.
- I understand.
Thank you
for a wonderful day.
Yeah.
[ knocking on door ]
Sounded like
you need some company.
The food's gonna get cold.
Don't get distracted.
Allow yourself to be still.
Think of all the things
you want to invite
into your new home.
Keep your eyes closed.
Radiates around me
Taking control...
Hmm. Felt it as soon
as I walked in here.
This place
needs to be lifted up.
I don't know
ifI feel a difference.
You will.
Especially once I leave.
I get angrier
No one can
Complications
by my side...
So, you got
Micah in therapy?
- Well, it was supposed
to be his first day today.
- I'm sorry.
No, no, if he'd wanted
to be there, he would've.
We're _sort of a mess
right now.
Micah is a beautiful person.
And you made him that way.
And then I dragged him
across the country.
Never took the time
to figure out
if it was
what was best for him.
Now he's not the same.
You're having growing pains.
Y'all just gotta lean
on each other.
Remember when I used
to play piano?
I remember you banging
on some-- some keys.
No, I was good.
I was.
I practiced
every day for years.
But then when I had
to play recitals,
I couldn't do it.
My hands
would shake so badly.
And one day, I just--
I stopped right
in the middle of it,
90t UP,
left the auditorium.
And my mother suggested
that I find a new activity.
We never talked
about it again.
Charley,
I say this out of love.
But your mama made you
a control freak.
- [ chuckles ]
- She did.
But you have a blank slate.
With yourself and with Micah.
Color it how you want.
Mm. You make it
sound so easy.
Nah. It ain't easy... ever.
Well, your slate
is blank now, too.
And I am not the only
control freak in this family.
This I know.
You must be talking
about Aunt Vi.
-[laughs]
- Don't play me.
You know she crazy
in that kitchen.
- Don't touch nothing!
- Nothing.
[ both laughing ]
- Thanks.
- Mm-hmm.
What are we doing here?
_ It's been a minute
Since we played, right?
- Yeah.
- Come on.
For every shot I make
past the three-point line,
I get to ask you a question
and you have to answer.
- [ clucks tongue ] No thanks.
- Hold on, wait, hold on,
_the deal works
in reverse, too.
You sink a ball,
you ask me a question.
Everything's on the table?
Mm-hmm.
Your three-point game
is weak, though.
- Oh, is it?
- Yeah.
I gotta make it
a fair fight, right?
- And_I do have
four rings, man.
- [ chuckles ]
Nice! Right out
of the gate, huh?
Are you a sex addict?
So, we're jumping
right in here.
No. I'm not.
I just think...
something's wrong with me.
You know, as long as I can put
a ball over that rim,
everybody gave me what
I wanted when I wanted it.
And I got used to that.
But I'm trying
to be somebody else now.
And... it's hard.
I had a lot of years
practicing being me,
you know?
My turn.
Those cops rough you up?
No.
The whole thing
was just a lot, like...
I've never,
ever felt like that.
Out of control,
at someone else's mercy.
And I was scared.
Real scared.
- Can't stop
thinking about it.
- Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, well.
Fear is a rite _
of passage for us, right?
Question is
how do you use it
to make yourself
smarter and better.
- All right?
- Yeah.
- Think fast.
- [ both laughing ]
Let me see you sink
another one of those,
come on, since
my three-point game
is so weak.
[laughs]
- Hey, guys.
- [ Blue crying ]
What's the matter, baby?
What happened?
What's going on?
- He didn't sleep good
last night.
- Kenya's missing!
We was up tearing up
his room all night.
Hey, hey,
it's all right, buddy.
We gonna find her.
I have _
to tell you something.
[ crying continues ]
What?
- I took Kenya.
- Why?
I don't know.
- [ grunts ]
- You bring her back?
No.
I threw her away.
- You th--
- [ voice breaks ] I'm sorry.
Wh-- why would you--
what am I gonna do with sorry?
I don't get you.
You had to have a reason.
Oh, so you
just gonna play that selfish,
mysterious act again?
- I'm not selfish.
- [ sighs ]
And I'm not being mysterious.
Where you throw it out at?
- Does it even matter?
- Just tell me!
The Arco near my house.
- [ door slams ]
- Okay.
I never, ever thought
I live to see the day
That I'd be running
after a man
This way
Baby,
you don't know...
Chre? You gonna get
out of bed?
- I'm staying here today.
- Not without me you're not.
I don't feel like
folks today, Hollywood.
Every place said no.
Every single one.
So, you just gonna lay here
feeling bad for yourself
listening to sad songs?
- [ click, music stops ]
-That ain't the Vi I know.
Well, that's the Vi
you getting today.
I deserve a day in bed.
I don't feel good.
Chre, it was one day,
one very hard, bad day.
But you ain't gotta let it
turn into two.
They still hurt
my feelings, Hollywood.
I hate to say it.
But that's how I feel.
Sometimes,
you just have to see
the sign for what it is.
For what it is
or for what you want it to be?
Now, baby, you had
a funny feeling about this
ever since you set out.
You can't let your mind
trick you like that.
You're gonna work it out.
How is it
that you're always
so sure, Holleood?
'Cause I believe in you.
Because everything
you want in life,
I want it for you
just as much.
But you got to keep working.
Either way,
you ain't in this by yourself.
[ music playing ]
I hear nothing
but problems
Listening to the news
- And feel nothing
but heartbeat...
- [ sighs ]
...But I sing more
than Blues...
- Shit.
- ...Well,
at the hand of a man
Who has _
trouble overseeing
The pike
and the coals, yes.
- [ siren beeps, whoops ]
- Man: You in the red shirt!
Stop where you are!
Put your hands up.
All right, don't move!
What do you think
you're doing?
- I lost something, officer.
I'm just trying to find it.
- This is private property.
I'm just trying
to find something, officer.
I lost something.
I know him.
We good.
You was always
getting me out of trouble.
Hey, look like some things
neverchange,huh?
- Hey, you had your fun
back in the day.
- Me?
- Yeah.
- Man, you wasn't
too far behind.
- What?
- Like that time
you got detention
for getting with that girl
in the broom closet.
No, that was a rumor, man.
Ain't no receipts for that.
You was
in detention withher!
-[laughs]
- Oh, man.
Look,
I appreciate today, Toine.
- Nah, man.
- No, for real, straight up.
I'd be getting processed
right now if you ain't
come along.
It's the least I could do.
Man, the way you had
my back growing up?
[ sighs ]
I want it all
with this girl, man.
House, farm, kids, whole nine.
All of it.
So what, man, you got
a soft spot for your son.
Period point blank?
Darla shouldn't have
thrown away that doll, man.
I don't know why
he hang on to Kenya,
but he does.
I know how it was for you.
Shit, I saw it.
And I don't know
everything about it, but...
I'm gonna keep him close.
Just let him, you know,
do whatever he wants...
be whoever he wanna be.
Man... I really can't let
this moment go by
without saying
thank you, man.
- We good.
- No, man.
I never really did.
[ sighs ]
Just, you let me be me,
even when I didn't know
who I was.
And the best part is,
you let me be me
when I didknow.
Girl, why your voice so deep?
Come over here, Antoinette.
I'll remind you
how to be a girl.
Man, shit, man.
I would've died
or killed somebody
up in that piece
if you didn't keep
my head on tight.
[ sighs ]
I feel ya.
I remember that time
I saw you in parish lockup.
Man, I so scared
somebody on the force
was gonna find out.
I remember praying, "God,
I hope Rah's still my boy.
Or is he gonna out me
right here in the middle
of the station,
wreck all my shit?"
But all you did was nod
and say, "What up?"
- [ both chuckling ]
- Man...
you know I was always
gonna do right by you.
Well, do right
by your girl, too, man.
Everybody out here trying
to do the best they can.
Ain't easy for nobody.
Dispatcher:
Assistance is needed
at the home marketplace.
Yeah, this is 632.
Officer Antoine Wilkins
responding.
- We got a 211 in progress.
- I'm on the way.
- Well.
- All right, man.
It's good seeing you, Toine.
You know it, man.
Stay out of the trash, bro.
[ sighs ]
[ car door opens, closes ]
How's Blue?
I finally got him down
for a nap.
Um... I'm gonna go.
Nah, don't go.
I thought that Blue
needed Kenya for when
I wasn't...
good.
But now I am.
And he still wants her.
That's what you thought?
You and Kenya
ain't got nothing
to do with each other.
The one thing...
I know that I am good
at... is being his mother.
Even if everything else
is upside down.
But yesterday
was a really long day.
And I--
- [ sighs ]
- Darla--
I saw him playing with Kenya
and I just--
Darla, he knows you his ma.
He know that.
Excuse me.
Owner in?
- Mm-hmm.
- Thank you.
Well, how y'all doing today?
Whatever you're selling,
save your breath.
I have the AC down,
and it's too hot to be
talking about anything else.
Well, I'll be happy
to look at your AC.
Maybe while I'm fixing it,
you can listen
to what this lovely woman
has to say.
- All right.
- It's out back?
- Yeah.
- Okay.
- So whatcha got?
- A cash cow.
Easy way
to double your investment
from week to week.
But you're right.
It is too hot
for song and dance.
- Yeah.
- So, why don't you just let
the pies talk to you?
All right,
let's see what you got.
[ clears throat ]
Mm. [ chuckles ]
Pretty good.
Mm, that's delicious.
Yes, it is.
Try this one.
- Don't mind if I do.
- Get some of that crust.
[ TV chatter
in background ]
_ Wanna see a movie
in the City With me later?
Yeah. I would love that.
And if
you're still breathing
Whatever
you're looking for
It's most alive
'Cause I can't
go through the course
Send me far
Into far inside
the truth...
- Coffee?
- Thank you.
I'm glad you called.
I hope I'm not pulling you
out of your day.
No. I don't mind.
In case you couldn't tell
from how I acted this weekend,
I'm glad you came out.
And I like you, too.
- Was that hard for you?
- Do you have to rub it in?
I'm just saying.
A little bit, maybe.
Just-- just a little bit.
- God, you're beautiful.
- Thanks.
And if
you're still here
Whatever
you're looking for
It's _most alive
in here
You caused me
to stay...
You know, Blue and that doll
were attached at the hip.
He gonna know
something different.
Or he will be so happy
to have Kenya back,
- that he won't
notice a thing.
- We'll see.
[ groans ] As soon as
I can get her to stop
looking so shiny and new.
[ cell phone vibrates ]
- Hello?
- Darla, it's Charley.
- Hi.
- So, I went over
your resume again.
- You didn't have to do that.
- Well, I wanted to.
- And I thought of a job
you could be right for.
- Okay.
Would you be interested
in being my office assistant?
I'm sort of drowning here,
and I could use the help.
Yeah, thank you.
Well, the mill's opening
in a couple of weeks,
so it'll be late nights,
early starts.
It's pretty intense.
- You can handle that?
- Absolutely.
- And you can start tomorrow?
- Yes, I can.
- Okay, see you then.
- Thank you so much, bye.
I just got a job.
I had a feeling.
Come on, tell me about it.
It's with Charley.
Working for her at the mill.
I just want to be
left alone
Can't you see
I'm trying
to find my way home?
I just want
to be left alone
Can't you see
I'm trying
to find my way home?
Please don't
bother me.
[ music playing ]